docs: :memo: description of the app URLs and functionality (#555)
seedcase-project/seedcase-sprout: docs/design/app-urls.qmd

---
title: "Web App URLs and Functionality"
---

{{< include /docs/includes/_wip.qmd >}}

Based on the [naming scheme](naming.qmd), this document describes the
core, user-facing web app URLs and functionality provided within
`sprout/app/`. See the [outputs](outputs.qmd) document for an overview
and explanation of the file and folder structure outputs of Sprout.
There are some differences between the naming scheme and the web app
URLs:

1.  Instead of singular nouns like `package` and `resource`, the URLs
    use plural nouns like `packages` and `resources` since they
    represent a collection of items traditionally shown in a folder or
    list view. For instance, `packages/` is the URL/folder that contains

>     all the packages, but `packages/1/` is the folder for the package with the ID of
>     1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    all the packages, but `packages/1/` is the folder for the package 
    with the ID of 1.
```
Currently looks like this in my local repo (floating "1."):
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/7cf9b291-ceb9-4828-ba3b-bc6d2f35ea73)

> 2.  Since the default action for seeing a list of items or seeing
>     details of a specific item are the same, unlike the Python functions
>     having either `list` or `view`, the URLs will not have a `list`
>     action. The default action is `view`. Viewing a URL doesn't just

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2.  Since the default action for viewing a list of items or
    details of a specific item are the same, unlike for the Python functions
    that include `list` and `view`, the URLs do not have a `list`
    action. The default action is `view`. Viewing a URL doesn't just
```

    show a basic description of the object, but also has options to edit,
    delete, or create new objects.
3.  Unlike the Python functions which start with the `action`, in the
    URLs, the `action` is at the end. For instance, `packages/create` is
    the action to create a package.
4.  When a URL ends without an action, the default action is `view`.
5.  Databases and resource data file objects do not have any `view` or
    `edit` action, as we do not want to allow view access to data in the raw
    files and database. This is done for security, privacy, and legal

>     reasons, as well as being out of scope for Sprout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    reasons, and it is also out of scope for Sprout.
```

> 6.  "Properties" refers to the metadata of the package or resource as
>     described by the Frictionless Data specification, explained in both
>     the [naming scheme](naming.qmd) and [outputs](outputs.qmd)
>     documents.

Reviewer: This is not really something that is different between the naming scheme and the URLs (as this list is about). Remove?
```suggestion
```

Following these principles, the URLs would be:

`packages`

:   View all packages found by the app by showing a

>     list or table of packages. From here, a user can select a package to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    list or table of packages and some basic information about each of them. From here, a user can select a package to
```

    view the package's own landing page.

`packages/create`

:   Create and set up a new package, with basic information (i.e.

>     properties) about the package. Starts with no data resources inside.
>     Will prompt the user to add details about the package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    properties) about the package. At the beginning, there is no resources inside a package.
    This URL will prompt the user to add details about the package.
```

`packages/<id>`

:   View the landing page of a package by showing its properties and
    resources. Users can move forward from here by either creating a
    data resource, adding more data to a data resource, or editing the

>     package's .

Reviewer 2: Is it intentional that you can add data to a specific resource both on this page as well as on the page for that specific resource?

>     package's properties.

Reviewer: Or edit a resource's properties?

>     package's properties.

Author: ```suggestion
    package's or resource's properties.
```

`packages/<id>/edit`

:   Edit the properties of a specific package.

`packages/<id>/delete`

> :   Delete a specific package. Is permanent, so asks the user to confirm
>     the deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Delete a specific package. This action is permanent, so the user will be asked to confirm
    the deletion.
```

`packages/<id>/resources/create`

> :   Creates a new resource for data and associated properties. The user

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Create a new resource for data and associated properties. The user
```
Or add s's to the other sections

    can upload a file with data, which will be used to extract some

>     basic properties. The user will then need to fill in and complete
>     the extracted properties. The user can continue to edit the resource after
>     creation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    basic properties. The user will then be prompted to fill in the remaining 
    properties and validate the extracted properties. When this is done, the 
    properties are completed and created. The user can continue to edit the 
    resource after creation.
```

`packages/<id>/resources/<id>`

:   View the properties of a specific resource. From here, a user can
    move forward by adding more data to the resource or editing the
    resource's properties.

`packages/<id>/resources/<id>/edit`

:   Edit a resource's properties, but not the data itself. We
    intentionally don't allow access to data to minimise potential

>     points of security and privacy concern and to reduce the amount of

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    security and privacy concerns and to reduce the amount of
```

    work we have to do to develop safe ways to show the data. Editing
    the data is also outside the scope of Sprout.

`packages/<id>/resources/<id>/add`

:   Add more data to a specific resource. The uploaded data *must*
    conform to the existing properties of the resource, otherwise, the

>     properties will need to be updated first (via `edit`).

Reviewer: or the new data will need to be edited outside of Sprout to conform with the existing properties?

>     properties will need to be updated first (via `edit`).

Author: ```suggestion
    properties will need to be updated first (via `edit`). Either that, or the
    new data will need to be edited manually before it can successfully be uploaded.
```

`packages/<id>/resources/<id>/delete`

:   Delete all associated data and properties metadata of a specific

>     package's resource. This is permanent, so the user will be asked to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    package's specific resource. This is permanent, so the user will be asked to
```

> :   Delete all associated data and properties metadata of a specific
>     package's specific resource. This is permanent, so the user will be asked to
>     confirm the deletion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:   Delete all associated data and properties of a specific resource. 
	This is permanent, so the user will be asked to confirm the deletion.
```

    that include `list` and `view`, the URLs do not have a `list`
    action. The default action is `view`. Viewing a URL doesn't just
    show a basic description of the object, but also has options to edit,
    delete, or create new objects.
3.  Unlike the Python functions which start with the `action`, in the
    URLs, the `action` is at the end. For instance, `packages/create` is
    the action to create a package.
4.  When a URL ends without an action, the default action is `view`.
5.  Databases and resource data file objects do not have any `view` or
    `edit` action, as we do not want to allow view access to data in the raw
    files and database. This is done for security, privacy, and legal
    reasons, and it is also [out of scope](index.qmd#goals) of Sprout.

Following these principles, the URLs would be:

`packages`

:   View all packages found by the app by showing a
    list or table of packages and some basic information about each of them. From here, a user can select a package to
    view the package's own landing page.

`packages/create`

:   Create and set up a new package, with basic information (i.e.

>     properties) about the package. At the beginning, there is no resources inside a package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    properties) about the package. At the beginning, there are no resources inside a package.
```
